*S2_ACanty Programming Y2 S2 (21/22) Learning Journal*

Template - Date, Task, Problems, Detailed Solution, Notes


08/02/22
Programming Package 1 - Full Menu System 

Task - Following a tutorial to learn how to program and implement a settings menu as well as a main menu, quit function, level select and pause menu in Unity. 
I had no prior knowledge of how to create a settings menu, or the unity it entails, so I predicted it would take longer to learn. 
Having created and having the code examples of the main and pause menus, I was much more confident in the timing for this. 


Problems

Unfamiliarity of unity system
When looking at the initial tutorial I had made the assumption that the UI elements of the tutorial would be included, and so I was unfamiliar with the 'Dropdown', 'Slider' and 'Toggle'
elements of Unity UI, and was unsure of how to make them. This would not only involve more research into Unity UI (or the code equivalent if this information could not be found),
it would also take more time from my esimate to familiarize myself with these, and find solutions outside of the tutorial planned. 

In fixing this, I looked through the Unity Documentation, as well as looking closer at the Hierarchy_>Create UI and found what I was looking for. 
I also compared the setup to the video to ensure what I would begin with was correct, and adjusted the sizing and placement of UI elements. Making these changes in Unity, 
it did take time from my initial estimate and did overrun in time, but also was a good learning oppourtunity to look into sources and ensure proper setup
of proposed learning materials before beginning. 

Dropdown Changes/Resizing UI Elements

More of this UI unfamiliarity was shown when resizing the UI elemets to fit with the FullScreen resolution in Game Mode. In order to make them fit, resizing through the rect
tool reduced the text quality and also didn't lead to consistant sizing, especially with the drop down selection, where the size didn't change, and led to undreadable options. 
Going through layers and looking at another youtube tutorial, how to fill out options on a dropdown became clear to me, and through trial and error of rezing, looking closer at
the inspector and scale function of the UI element, I could consistently utilise the new UI feature as I needed to. This was a good remider to utilise trial and error when in the engine, and to look for 
clearer solutions online, and in using both, and remebering unity fundementals (E.g. Inspector -> Scale), many of these setbacks are resolvable without taking uo too much time. 

Slow Quality changes. 

When watching the tutorial and completing the Quality change script, running the Dropdown selection of 'High, Medium, Low' in playmode, alongside the Player Settings -> Quality menu,
the updates on the changing of quality was initially very slow. After double checking my scripts and showing a peer, and restarting the change, it sped up immensely, and was much clearer 
that it was working. From this I learned to try/run my scripts more than once to allow them to fully initate and save so everything updates quickly. 


Additional Notes. 
All other aspects of making the sysem was done quickly and easy as a knew what to do and had reference from previous projects. I also added an information scene in order to explain the package to anyone using it. 
My infamiliarity was the main cause of problems with this, but the investigation through unity documentation, looking in engine, and online reloved all of these
without too much time spent on them, but I will have to keep unfamiliarity as a factor when looking at my other packages, my game, and future projects to give myself enough time to prepare.
Timing/Estimate changes and discussion of other packages outside during class, meant that I finished the full menu system of the initiala 3 hours, but was complete close to my estimate. 









15/02/22
Programming Package 2 - UI, Line Renderer Waypoint System (2D) 

Task - Looking closer at line renderer in order to create a point from a player to their goal point. 
This line updates as they get closer. When they get close enough to their goal, it switches to the next target. 
This would be useful for a map system and a way to guide player's to their next objective.

Problems

The only major problem I had with this task was the starting point, in which I didn't fully understand the line renderer, and my proposed tutorial did not 
function the way I wanted it to (It reffered to Waypoint in AI, as opposed to Wayfinding/UI). Knowing this, I looked for other tutorials in addition
to the Unity Documentation, which was very helpful in allowing me to understand the line renderer. Now, able to grasp the concept, a peer in the class
was able to go through and solve the problems with me, in order to construct the package. It was well understood and took less than than anticipated, with
no other major issues then how to begin the process, for which I reached out and researched, explanding my understanding of the area of the Unity engine and programming in general.

Overall, I am very happy with the accessibility and speed of this project, coming in under my estimations, with no issues that reduced my ability to work on this. 
With the help of Ramone, I now understand how to replicate and add to this in the future, and how users of the package can achieve this. 
(Eg, next point appears after interaction with Point A)
One important lesson from this is to have a better understanding and look over of the tutorial I plan to use, and to better utilize Unity documentation 
to see what I can create. 


22/02/22
Programming Package 3 - Scroll Rect (with Toggle)

Task - Improve on an exisitnig tutorial and make it closer to game ready, with additional 

Problems 

While this project was rather straight forward since I had done aspects of it before

I had to look at some old scripts for the set active
Function =! of its own

In all, easy and quick

4/03/22
Programming Package 4 - Quiz System (Multiple Choice)


Task - 
Problems

assigning correct answers
